# LC- 2200

## Software Convention

### Registers
There are 16 registers in the LC 2200 machine

0. **$zero:** Read- Only, always zero
1. **$at:** Target address
2. **$v0:** Return value [CALLER SAVED]
3. **$a0:** Argument/ parameter register [CALLER SAVED]
4. **$a1:** Argument/ parameter register [CALLER SAVED]
5. **$a2:** Argument/ parameter register [CALLER SAVED]
6. **$t0:** Temporary register [CALLER SAVED]
7. **$t1:** Temporary register [CALLER SAVED]
8. **$t2:** Temporary register [CALLER SAVED]
9. **$s0:** Caller register/ Saved register [CALLEE SAVED]
10. **$s1:** Caller register/ Saved register [CALLEE SAVED]
11. **$s2:** Caller register/ Saved register [CALLEE SAVED]
12. **$k0:** Reserved for OS/traps
13. **$sp:** Stack pointer register [CALLER SAVED]
14. **$fp:** Used for frame pointer [CALLEE SAVED]
15. **$ra:** Used to store return address [CALLER SAVED]

### Procedure call/return
1. Caller saves temporary registers on the stack
2. Caller places parameters on the stack
3. Caller allocates space for additional return values on the stack
4. Caller saves previous return address on stack
5. Caller does JALR
6. *Callee* saves saved registers it plans to use on the stack
7. *Callee* allocates space for local variables on the stack
8. *Callee* restores saved registers prior to return
9. Upon return, caller restores return address
10. Caller stores return values as required
11. Caller moves stack pointer to remove parameters from stack
12. Caller restores any temporary registers on the stack

**Activation Record:** The portion of the stack that is relevant to the current executing procedure.

**Frame Pointer:** Contains the address of a known point in the activation record to know which stack frame are you in.

Instructions can be grouped into categories based on the number of operands for the instruction (zero, one, two and three).

### Instructions
There are 8 instructions in the LC- 2200 computer
* `ADD $reg0, $reg1, $reg2`
	* `$reg0 <-- $reg1 + $reg2`
	* Adds contents of `$reg1` and `$reg2`, and stores into `$reg0`
* `NAND $reg0, $reg1, $reg2`
	* `$reg0 <-- ~($reg1 & $reg2)`
	* NANDs contents of `$reg1` and `$reg2`, and stores into `$reg0`
* `ADDI $reg0, $reg1, value`
	* `$reg0 <-- $reg1 + value`
	* Adds contents of `$reg1` to the value, and stores into `$reg0`
* `LW $reg0, OFFSET($reg1)`
	* `$v0 <-- MEM[$reg1 + OFFSET]`
	* Loads the value in memory at location found at sum of `reg1` with the OFFSET, and stores it into `$reg0`
* `SW $reg0, OFFSET($reg1)`
	* `MEM[$reg1 + OFFSET] <-- $reg0`
	* Stores the value in `$reg0` into memory at location found at sum of `reg1` and OFFSET
* `BEQ $reg0, $reg1, OFFSET`
	* `if($reg0 == $reg1) PC <-- PC + 1 + OFFSET`
	* If values found in `$reg0` and `$reg1` are the same, then branch to address as given by offset
* `JALR $reg0, $reg1`
	* Stores PC + 1 into `$reg1`, then branches to instruction contained at `$reg0`
* `HALT`
	* Stops the process

These instructions can be divided into 4 different types, depending on how the instruction is structured in memory
1. R-type: All operands are coming from registers
	* ADD, NAND
2. I-type: At least one operand is an immediate value
	* ADDI, LW, SW, BEQ
3. J-type: Jump
	* JALR
4. O-type: No operands  
	* HALT

